---
title: "Research"

---

### 论文
#### Mathematical logic, theory of computation
$$x-y$$
- Leonard Pacheco, Wenjuan Li, Kazuyuki Tanaka. On one-variable fragments of modal $\mu$-calculus. Computability Theory and Foundations of Mathematics 2019 (Wuhan), World-Scientific (2021), to appear.
    > **Outlines**: Modal μ-calculus, an extension of modal logic by adding greatest andleast fixpoint operators, is closely related with tree automata and games. One fundamental issue is the *complexity measure* of formulas of modal μ-calculus, *e.g.*, alternation depths and number of variables. The alternation hierarchy  and variable hierarchy are proved to be strict over the class of all transition systems. We study the one-variable fragment of modal μ-calculus and weak modal μ-calculus, which is essential the same as $Σ^μ_2 \cap \Pi^μ_2$ in the alternation hierarchy.Our proof of strictness relies on weak parity games. Considering a weak parity games with infinitely many priorities, we show their winning positions can be expressed by a Σ^μ_2 formula and a Π^μ_2 formula, but in term of one-variable fragment, it requires a transfinite extension of alternation hierarchy of one-variable modal μ-calculus. Thus we introduce the transfinite weak μ-arithmetic and show its connection to the transfinite one-variable modal μ-calculus.
- Wenjuan Li, Yasuhiko Omata, Kazuyuki Tanaka. Alternation hierarchies and fragments of modal $\mu$-calculus. RIMS Kokyuroku (京都大学数理解析研究所講究録), 2083(2018), pp.98-110.
- Wenjuan Li, Kazuyuki Tanaka. The determinacy strength of pushdown $\omega$-languages. RAIRO-Theoretical Informatics and Applications,  51(2017), pp.29-50.
    > **Outlines**: We investigate the determinacy strength of infinite games whose winning sets are recognized by nondeterministic pushdown automata with various acceptance conditions, e.g., safety, reachability and co-Büchi conditions. In terms of the foundational program "Reverse Mathematics", the determinacy strength of such games is measured by the complexity of a winning strategy required by the determinacy. Infinite games recognized by nondeterministic pushdown automata have some resemblance to those by deterministic 2-stack visibly pushdown automata with the same acceptance conditions. So, we first investigate the determinacy of games recognized by deterministic 2-stack visibly pushdown automata, together with that by nondeterministic ones. Then, for instance, we prove that the determinacy of games recognized by pushdown automata with a reachability condition is equivalent to the weak König lemma, stating that every infinite binary tree has an infinite path. While the determinacy for pushdown ω-languages with a Büchi condition is known to be independent from ZFC, we here show that for the co-Büchi condition, the determinacy is exactly captured by ATR_0, another popular system of reverse mathematics asserting the existence of a transfinite hierarchy produced by iterating arithmetical comprehension along a given well-order. Finally, we conclude that all results for pushdown automata in this paper indeed hold for 1-counter automata.
- Shohei Okisaka, Weiguang Peng, Wenjuan Li, Kazuyuki Tanaka. The eigen-distribution of weighted game trees. Lecture Notes in Computer Science,  10627(2017), pp.286-297.
- Weiguang Peng, Shohei Okisaka, Wenjuan Li, Kazuyuki Tanaka. The uniqueness of eigen-distribution under non-directional algorithms. IAENG International Journal of Computer Science, 43(2016), pp.318-325.
- Weiguang Peng, Shohei Okisaka, Wenjuan Li, Kazuyuki Tanaka. The eigen-distribution for multi-branching trees. Proceedings of International Multi-Conference of Engineers and Computer Scientists,  I(2016), pp.88-93.
- Wenjuan Li, Shohei Okisaka, Kazuyuki Tanaka. Infinite games recognized by 2-stack visibly pushdown automata. RIMS Kokyuroku (京都大学数理解析研究所講究録), 1950(2015), pp.121-137.
